

## International Debt Statistics - PPG Bilateral Debt

### Overview

This project is focused on analyzing and visualizing data from the International Debt Statistics database, specifically focusing on public and publicly guaranteed (PPG) bilateral debt. The goal is to provide insights into bilateral debt trends across countries and regions over time.

### Features

- Fetches and preprocesses data from the World Bank's International Debt Statistics database.
- Analyzes and visualizes bilateral debt data using Python libraries such as pandas, matplotlib, and seaborn.
- Provides interactive visualizations for exploring bilateral debt trends by country, region, and debt type.

### Installation

To run the project locally, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/3008aryansingh/International-Debt-Statistics-PPG-Bilateral-Debt.git
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

### Usage

1. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```
   cd International-Debt-Statistics-PPG-Bilateral-Debt
   ```

2. Run the main script to fetch and preprocess the data:
   ```
   python main.py
   ```

3. Explore the generated visualizations in the `output/` directory.

### Examples

Below are examples of visualizations generated by the project:

- Total PPG Bilateral Lending has increased from less than 500 million $ in 2000 to about 45 billion $ in 2020
- Bhutan has been the biggest debtor country receiving almost 18 billion $ over the period of 20 years

### Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you'd like to contribute to the project, please follow these guidelines:

- Fork the repository.
- Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix.
- Make your changes and submit a pull request.

### License

This project is licensed under the MIT. See the `LICENSE` file for more details.

### Contact

For any inquiries or suggestions regarding the project, please contact singharyan3008@gmail.com/ +919860177421.

---

